In today’s modern world, a diamond represents luxury, romance and dedication. Whenever a man proposes to a woman, it is the norm to do so with a diamond ring. Even in popular video games such as Minecraft, diamonds are regarded as the most valuable resource. Many believe that this connotation of the diamond comes from its natural scarcity, but in fact the story of how it gained its reputation goes no further than to the 19th century, when Cecil Rhodes founded the company De Beers in 1888.\nDe Beers was first established in order to profit from South African diamond mines. Rhodes wished to expand his company to the rapidly growing economy of the United States, but there was a problem. In the states, diamonds were not highly sought after, hence Rhodes decided to rely on advertisement and change the public’s perception of the diamond to achieve success. The company hired an advertising agency: N.W Ayer to lead this endeavor.\nThe first campaign was set into action in 1947, where the company attempted to correlate diamonds to romantic dedication. They used the slogan of “A Diamond is Forever”, to advertise that a diamond is a show of commitment and love. They put ads on fashion magazines, over 125 newspaper articles, and several movies, all of which represented diamond jewelry as luxurious. Deals with fashion companies were made to express diamonds as a new fashion trend, and celebrities were paid to tell stories of how their lover gifted them diamonds.\nIn fact, “We spread the word of diamonds worn by stars of screen and stage, by wives and daughters of political leaders, by any woman who can make the grocer’s wife and the mechanic’s sweetheart say ‘I wish I had what she has’”\nThe 1947 advertisement campaign for De Beers is considered one of the most successful campaigns to this day, not only changing the public perception of diamonds to rare, valuable romantic luxuries, but also managing to correlate diamonds to love and eternity, giving it almost a magical feel. Throughout their advertisements, other slogans were also invented, such as “The Eternity Ring” and “The Trilogy Ring”, representing the past, present and future. This created the idea that the size and quality of a diamond was synonymous with a man’s success and wealth in society, and women was ingrained with the idea that courtship was to be concluded with diamonds.\nFurthermore, the success of these advertising strategies are clearly shown from the statistics. In 1939, De Beers was valued to be around 23 million dollars, but in 1979, this number grew to 2.1 billion dollars. Their annual net revenue rose from 200,000$ to around 10 million dollars in the span of the 40 years. In fact, in the modern age, three fourths of American brides wear a diamond engagement ring, with the average one costing at around 4000$.\nOverall, De Beers is one of many examples of how corporations utilized psychological advertisement to their advantage. In this day and age, no matter where we go or look, we can see advertisements left and right. But how can we ensure that our own views and perceptions on reality are not altered by such advertisements? The most simple way is to be aware of the possibility of manipulation when viewing advertisements. Whenever you are deciding to purchase a product, don’t rely solely on the statistics and information given to you by corporations, but do your own research. Make sure the information is accurate. Simple actions such as this can allow you to not be manipulated by companies’ advertisements.\n